---
type: docs
title: "Init the Angular project"
linkTitle: "Init the Angular project"
weight: 40
description: >
  Create an Angular project with a standard setup.
---


## Create a branch

`feature/us-202107171725-angular-setup`

## Generate the Angular app in the ./project/ directory

~~~
npx -p @angular/cli ng new --directory=./project --routing=true --style=scss dii-administration-frontend
~~~

Let's break down that command line.
 - `npx -p @angular/cli ng` tells `npm` to
   - Create a `package.json` file for your package
   - Install the Angular CLI tool into that package
   - Call the Angular CLI `ng` tool once it's installed
 - `ng new` tells the Angular CLI to create a new app
   - `--directory=./project` is the location of the app (and the `package.json`)
   -  `--routing=true` means we want Angular Routing
   -  `--style=scss` means we want to use SCSS for style
      (because [SCSS is better](https://www.mugo.ca/Blog/7-benefits-of-using-SASS-over-conventional-CSS))
   -  `dii-administration-frontend` is the name that will be added to `package.json`

{{% alert title="Don't listen to that guy" color="warning" %}}
Lots of sources will tell you to use `ng` directly instead of using `npx -p @angular/cli ng`.

Don't listen to them. Using `ng` directly means you 
and every other developer on the team
would be using whichever version of the Angular CLI is installed on the
local machine at the time. We use `npx` to ensure that the version of
`ng` that is used is the version which is installed into `package.json`.
{{% /alert %}}


Stage and commit to local feature branch with comment "npx -p @angular/cli ng new --directory=./project --routing=true --style=scss dii-administration-frontend".

Add these lines to `project.json`:

~~~
{
  ...
  "description": "Drive-Ins Inc. Administration Frontend",
  ...
  "author": "Drive-Ins Inc.",
  "private": true,
  "license": "UNLICENSED",
  ...
}
~~~

TODO: Explain why we use "private" and "UNLICENSED".

Stage and commit to local feature branch with comment "Updated package.json".


## Explore the new app

Let's take a look at what `ng` has created for us.

### Continuously-running unit tests

In VS Code, start a new Terminal and name it "karma".

Change to the `./project/` directory.

~~~
cd ./project/
~~~

Fire up the [Karma](https://github.com/karma-runner/karma) test runner to continuously
run your unit tests in a browser window.

~~~
npm test
~~~

TODO: Discuss how we'll keep this browser window open during development.

### Browse the continuously-updated app

In VS Code, start a new Terminal and name it "angular".

Change to the `./project/` directory.

~~~
cd ./project/
~~~

Start the app

~~~
npm start
~~~

Now open a browser window and navigate to the app.

TODO: Discuss how we'll keep this browser window open during development.

## Pull request time!

Hopefully by now your remote git is ready.
  - Create the PR.
  - Get approval.
  - Complete the PR.
  - Switch from the local feature branch to `main`.
  - Pull `main` to local.
  - Delete the now-unnecessary local feature branch.