---
type: docs
title: "Pact"
linkTitle: "Pact"
weight: 48
description: >
  Pact.
---

## Credits

This approach came from:
 - [Creating a Consumer-Driven Contract with Angular and Pact](https://reflectoring.io/consumer-driven-contracts-with-angular-and-pact/)
 - [Using Pact with Karma](https://github.com/pact-foundation/pact-js#using-pact-with-karma)
 - [pact-js/examples/karma/jasmine/](https://github.com/pact-foundation/pact-js/tree/master/examples/karma/jasmine)

## Add /logs to .gitignore

The Pact tools will be creating logs in the `\logs\` directory and
those don't need to be shared with the whole team, 
so add these lines to `.gitignore`:

~~~
# Logs
/logs
~~~

Commit with the comment "Added /logs to .gitignore".

## Install bootstrap and bootswatch

What you'll install:
 - [pact-node](https://github.com/pact-foundation/pact-node) is a wrapper around the original Ruby implementation of Pact that, among other things, allows to run a mock provider and create contract files - or “pacts”, as they are called when using Pact - from Javascript code.
 - [karma-pact](https://github.com/pact-foundation/karma-pact) is a plugin for the Karma test runner framework that launches a mock provider via pact-node before running the actual tests.
 - [pact-web](https://github.com/pact-foundation/pact-js) (also called PactJS) is a Javascript library that provides an API to define contract fragments by listing request / response pairs (“interactions”) and sending them to a pact-node mock server. This enables us to implement consumer-driven contract tests from our Angular tests.
 - Some declaration files (@types/express and @types/needle) needed by the above packages.

~~~
npm install -D @pact-foundation/pact-node @pact-foundation/karma-pact @pact-foundation/pact-web @types/express @types/needle
~~~

Commit with the comment "npm install -D @pact...".

## Create a .spec

We're going to create a test specification in the file
`src\app\pact\backend.pact.spec.ts` which will test
the `BackendService` (from `../core/singleton-services/backend/backend.service`)
and which will create the Pact file for the `frontend-backend` contract.

We're going to create the test specification in a few steps:
 1. Generate a temporary service and its `.spec.ts` file.
 2. Since the service we're actually testing requires `HttpClient` in its constructor, we'll
    add `HttpClient` to the constructor of the temporary service and adjust the `.spec.ts` accordingly.
 3. Change the `.spec.ts` file so it references `BackendService` instead of the temporary service.
 4. Delete the temporary service.
 5. Add 
~~~
npx ng g service pact/temporary
~~~

This will create two files:

~~~
src\app\pact\temporary.service.spec.ts
src\app\pact\temporary.service.ts
~~~

Commit with the comment "ng g service pact/temporary".

Add `HttpClient` to the constructor of `TemporaryService`:

~~~
import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

@Injectable({
  providedIn: 'root'
})
export class TemporaryService {

  constructor(
    private httpClient: HttpClient) {
  }
}
~~~

Check out the Karma window. You'll see a failed test that says something like this:

~~~
NullInjectorError: R3InjectorError(DynamicTestModule)[TemporaryService -> HttpClient -> HttpClient]: 
  NullInjectorError: No provider for HttpClient!
~~~

To allow that test to pass, change `src\app\pact\temporary.service.spec.ts` from...

~~~
...
    TestBed.configureTestingModule({});

...
~~~

...to...

~~~
...
    TestBed.configureTestingModule({
      imports: [HttpClientTestingModule]
    });
...
~~~

...and add the import.

Commit with the comment "Added HttpClient to the ctor of TemporaryService".

Delete `src\app\pact\temporary.service.ts`

In `src\app\pact\temporary.service.spec.ts`

 - Change all "TemporaryService" to "BackendService"
 - Import "BackendService"
 - Delete the import of "TemporaryService"

Delete `src\app\pact\backend-contract.service.ts`.

Commit with the comment "temporary.service.spec.ts now tests BackendService.".

Rename `temporary.service.spec.ts` to `backend.pact.spec.ts`.

Commit with the comment "Renamed spec to backend.pact.spec.ts.".

