---
type: docs
title: "Init the Angular project"
linkTitle: "Init the Angular project"
weight: 40
description: >
  Create an Angular project with a standard setup.
---


## Create a branch

`feature/angular-setup`

## Generate the Angular app in the ./ directory

Delete some files that we're about to overwrite.

~~~
rm package.json
rm package-lock.json
rm index.html
rm README.md
rm .gitignore
~~~

~~~
npx -p @angular/cli ng new --directory=./ --routing=true --style=scss project ; npm run test
~~~

Let's break down that command line.
 - `npx -p @angular/cli ng` tells `npm` to
   - Create a `package.json` file for your package
   - Install the Angular CLI tool into that package
   - Call the Angular CLI `ng` tool once it's installed
 - `ng new` tells the Angular CLI to create a new app
   - `--directory=./` is the location of the app (and the `package.json`)
   -  `--routing=true` means we want Angular Routing
   -  `--style=scss` means we want to use SCSS for style
      (because [SCSS is better](https://www.mugo.ca/Blog/7-benefits-of-using-SASS-over-conventional-CSS))
   -  `project` is the name that will be added to `package.json`.
      We use the name `project` in all of our Angular apps so the directory names will be
      consistent and our pipeline will be able to find them.
 - `; npm run test` is something we'll discuss later on this page.

## Take a break!

This is a good time to take a break. The `ng new` command and the `npm run test` command will take a few minutes to run.

## When you're back and the commands have finished running

Stage and commit to local feature branch with comment "ng new".

Add these lines to `project.json`:

~~~
{
  ...
  "description": "Drive-Ins Inc. Administration Frontend",
  ...
  "author": "Drive-Ins Inc.",
  "private": true,
  "license": "UNLICENSED",
  ...
}
~~~

{{% alert title="This is not open source" color="info" %}}
Why we use "private" and "UNLICENSED"?

Because this is not open-source software. It's copyrighted stuff.
{{% /alert %}}

Stage and commit to local feature branch with comment "Updated package.json".

## Explore the new app

Let's take a look at what `ng` has created for us.

{{% alert title="Hey, instructor!" color="primary" %}}
Now would be a good time for the "Frontend Developers’ Three Windows" slide.
{{% /alert %}}

### Continuously-running unit tests

In VS Code, start a new Terminal and name it "karma".

Fire up the [Karma](https://github.com/karma-runner/karma) test runner to continuously
run your unit tests in a browser window.

~~~
npm test
~~~

### Browse the continuously-updated app

In VS Code, start a new Terminal and name it "angular".

Start the app

~~~
npm start
~~~

Now open a browser window and navigate to the app.

TODO: SWA stuff goes here.

### Deploy

Push, create a pull request, complete the pull request and delete the branches.
